OSDOCS-10211: eBPF flow rule filtering (#74622)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]
= Filtering eBPF flow data with rules

> You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using rules as a method to control the flow of packets cached in eBPF's flows table based on certain configuration.

Reviewer: its worth mention its single global rule not rules :)

====
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      flowFilter:
        action: Accept  <1>
        cidr: 172.210.150.1/24 <2>
        protocol: SCTP
        direction: Ingress
        destPortRange: 80-100
        peerIP: 10.10.10.10
----
<1> The required `action` parameter describes the action to be taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` and `Reject`. 
<2> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule, and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` or `::/0` for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.
====
+
[%collapsible]
.See flows to any addresses outside the cluster 
====
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      flowFilter:
        action: Accept  
        cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <1>
        protocol: TCP
        direction: Egress
        source_port: 100

>         peerIP: 192.168.127.12 <2>

Reviewer: there is `enable` field to enable flow filtering feature without setting it to `true` feature won't work

Author: oh, ok. I asked about this on Slack, and I thought you said its not required but its useful for debugging:
> Does spec:
  agent.ebpf.metrics.enable need to be true for the filtering?
[4:45](https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/D031X53RGJZ/p1712954733783529)
I see its in Amogh's test

> mmahmoud
  4:46 PM
flow filtering has statistics so if user wanted to see if the flowfilter was matching or not then we need to enable metrics but its not need for filtering to work more for debugging , speaking of that we might have dashboard for flow filtering

Author: So based on this convo I think I just removed it instead of using a callout

Author: I added it back to both examples

----

> <1> The `cidr` value of `0.0.0.0/0` matches against any OP address.

Reviewer: what is `OP address` ?

Author: Ah, that's a typo  it should be IP

Author: Addressed: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74622/files#diff-ced28301ee53effb3bbb412410346997b450c48937bcd8da10eec15ef14882b1R72

> <1> The `peerIP` value of `0.0.0.0/0` matches against any OP address.

Reviewer: u meant `cidr` ?

Reviewer: numbers not matching the rule

Author: Oops yes!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]

> = Filtering eBPF flow data with rules

Reviewer: its one global rule no `rules`

> You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using a global rule as a method to control the flow of packets cached in eBPF's flows table based on certain configuration.

Author: Yeah I think you're right "based on certain configurations" is a little redundant here. I think it can safely be removed.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for *Network Observability*, select *Flow Collector*.

> . Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.

Reviewer 2: So here we are assuming a flowcollector already exists with name `cluster` Is that what is expected?

Author: Hrrrm. Ok, so yea the *cluster* bit here is coming from the fact that when I'm looking at this in the Web Console, I see *cluster* , so is that maybe what its named in all the pre-configured settings @Amoghrd ?

Reviewer 2: Okay I see its the same way for all other features too. So can ignore this

> . Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource. A few sample configurations are as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource, similar to the following sample configurations:
```
Just a nit: I find _few_ to be a bit jarring when you have two. And if you tweak it this way, you can add more sample configs without worrying about changing the lead-in.

> . Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource. A few sample configurations are as follows:

Author: Great suggestion, thanks :)

+

[%collapsible]

> .Filter Kubernetes service traffic to specific POD IP endpoint

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.Filter Kubernetes service traffic to a specific POD IP endpoint
```

Author: Yep and idk why I allcaps POD here but I think it should be Pod.

====
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      flowFilter:
        action: Accept  <1>
        cidr: 172.210.150.1/24 <2>
        protocol: SCTP
        direction: Ingress
        destPortRange: 80-100
        peerIP: 10.10.10.10
        enable: true    <3>
----

> <1> The required `action` parameter describes the action to be taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` and `Reject`. 

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be `Possible values are `Accept` OR `Reject`.`?

> <1> The required `action` parameter describes the action to be taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> The required `action` parameter describes the action taken by the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`. 
```
The [Red Hat style guide](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/) cautions against future tense. Could this rewrite work?

> <2> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule, and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` or `::/0` for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<2> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, use `0.0.0.0/0` for IPv4 and or `::/0` for IPv6.
```
I think this might make it a bit easier to read. But just a thought.

Author: I like that. Using respectively makes it harder to understand quickly.

> <3> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable the feature.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<3> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable this feature.
```

====
+
[%collapsible]
.See flows to any addresses outside the cluster 
====
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:        
      flowFilter:
        action: Accept  <1>
        cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <2>
        protocol: TCP
        direction: Egress
        sourcePort: 100
        peerIP: 192.168.127.12 <3>
        enable: true    <4>
----       
<1> You can `Accept` flows based on the criteria in the `flowFilter` specification.
<2> The `cidr` value of `0.0.0.0/0` matches against any IP address.

> <3> See flows after `peerIP` is configured with `192.168.127.12`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<3> The flows after `peerIP` are configured with `192.168.127.12`. 
```
This sentence didn't make sense to me, but I am, admittedly, not familiar with the product. Do my edits change the meaning of the footnote?

Author: I think this is meant more like, You can see flows once the peerIP is configured

> <3> See flows after EgressIP feature is configured with EgressIP 192.168.127.12. 

Reviewer 2: There should be a mention of `PeerIP` instead of EgressIP in above line right?

Author: Yeah I think you're right. I was using the example [here](https://github.com/netobserv/netobserv-ebpf-agent/blob/f2a65b3639d01c06092555312c2b85b43881aa5d/docs/flow_filtering.md#use-case-2) and I think I mixed EgressIp and PeerIP

> <4> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable the feature.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<4> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable this feature.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]
= Filtering eBPF flow data with rules
You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using a global rule as a method to control the flow of packets cached in eBPF's flows table based on certain configuration.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for *Network Observability*, select *Flow Collector*.
. Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource. A few sample configurations are as follows:
+

[%collapsible]
.Filter Kubernetes service traffic to specific POD IP endpoint
====
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      metrics:

>         enable: true    <1>

Reviewer: wrong enable :) this enable metric

Author: LOL got it 👍

      flowFilter:
        action: Accept  <2>
        cidr: 172.210.150.1/24 <3>
        protocol: SCTP
        direction: Ingress
        destPortRange: 80-100

>         peerIP: 10.10.10.10

Reviewer: u add `enable: true` here to enable flowfilter

Author: OK, I also added enable to the Required configuration table: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74622/files#diff-c1f389cfa44881b2885e5709e478c820d4f98f140dbb208b231639b47ec4d159R15

Reviewer 2: yeah better to have enable: true even in the YAML

----

> <1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.metrics.` to `enable`.

Reviewer: not right see the above

<2> The required `action` parameter describes the action to be taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` and `Reject`. 
<3> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule, and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` or `::/0` for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.
====
+
[%collapsible]
.See flows to any addresses outside the cluster 
====
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      metrics:

>         enable: true    <1>

Reviewer: same here
